.TH ONEFILE 1 "December 2024" "onefile 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
onefile \- Combine files of specified extensions into a single output file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B onefile
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B onefile
utility combines files from specified directories, matching given extensions, into a single output file. It optionally allows excluding directories, adding a header to the output, suppressing the printing of relative file paths during processing, skipping the confirmation prompt, and always printing relative paths.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR "\-d, \-\-directories " "<dir1>[,<dir2>...]"
Comma-separated list of directories to search. If not specified, the default is the current directory (.).
.TP
.BR "\-e, \-\-extensions " "<ext1>[,<ext2>...]"
Comma-separated list of file extensions to combine (e.g., js,ts). If not specified, all files (except those excluded) are included.
.TP
.BR "\-x, \-\-exclude " "<exclude1>[,<exclude2>...]"
Comma-separated list of directories to exclude.
.TP
.BR "\-o, \-\-output " "<output_file>"
Specify the output file. The default is
.IR output_combined_files.txt .
.TP
.BR "\-h, \-\-header " "<header>"
Add a header text at the beginning of the output file.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-silent
Suppress printing of relative file paths to the terminal during processing.
.TP
.BR "\-v, \-\-version"
Print the version number of the
.B onefile
utility and exit.
.TP
.BR "\-a, \-\-append"
Append to the output file instead of overwriting it.
.TP
.BR "\-y, \-\-yes"
Skip the confirmation prompt before writing files.
.TP
.BR "\-p, \-\-print"
Always print relative file paths to the terminal, even without the prompt.
.SH OPERANDS
None.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The
.B onefile
utility exits with one of the following values:
.TP
0
Successful completion.
.TP
1
An error occurred (e.g., invalid option, missing argument, directory not found, file write error).
.SH EXAMPLES
Combine all .js and .ts files in the current directory, excluding node_modules, into output.txt:
.TP 3
.B onefile
-e js,ts -x node_modules -o output.txt
.PP
Combine all files in the src and lib directories, add a header, and suppress path printing:
.TP 3
.B onefile
-d src,lib -h "My Project Files" -s -o combined.txt
.PP
Append all .py files from the scripts directory to existing_code.txt, skipping the confirmation:
.TP 3
.B onefile
-d scripts -e py -a -o existing_code.txt -y
.PP
Print the version number of onefile:
.TP 3
.B onefile
-v
.PP
Always print relative paths to the terminal without the prompt:
.TP 3
.B onefile
-e js -p
.PP
Use long-form options:
.TP 3
.B onefile
--directories src,lib --extensions js,ts --exclude .git,tmp --output combined.txt --append --yes
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR find (1),
.BR cat (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Andrea de Candia

